## Course Links

- [Cloud Practitioner - Digital and Classroom Training | AWS (amazon.com)](https://aws.amazon.com/training/learn-about/cloud-practitioner/)



## Course 1: Job Roles in the Cloud

### Shared Responsibility Model

AWS is responsible for security of  the cloud and customer is responsible for security in the cloud. 

- The customer assumes responsibility and management of the guest operating system, including updates and security patches.
- The customer also assumes responsibility for other associated application software and the configuration of the AWS provided security group firewall.

## Course 2: AWS Cloud Practitioner Essentials



### Module 1 Introduction to Amazon Web Services

Benefit of AWS:

1. only pay for what you need

   - You don't need to pay for extra hardware if you do not have that much traffic like in the midnight

   - You can tripple your hardware resource on-demand when high traffic comes

2. AWS helps you do stuff that most of the IT department needs to do but does not make your business better than the competitors

   - e.g. Installing a mysql database and upgrade it

### Module 2 Compute in the Cloud

#### EC2 instance types

- General purpose instance
- Compute optimized instances
- Memory optimized instance
  - e.g. high-performance database
- Accelerated computing instances
  - Use hardware accelerators, or coprocessors, to perform some functions more efficiently than is possible in software running on CPUs
  - e.g. Graphics processing
- Storage optimized instances
  - Like data warehousing applications

#### EC2 Pricing 

- On-Demand
  - Ad-hoc, short-term contract, more expensive than reserved instances


- Reserved Instances
  - Long-term contract, cheaper than on-demand
  - Two categries:
    - Standard Reserved Instances
    - Convertible Reserved Instances: more flexible, you can change instance type, availability zone... But it's more expensive

- Savings Plans
  - High-customized plan
- Spot Instances
  - Cheapest one. Your program would only be run when there is free computing resource
  - And your program can be interrupted if computing resource short 
- Dedicated Hosts
  - Dedicated physical machines, most expensive


#### Scaling Amazon EC2

Auto-scaling group: minimum capacity, desired capacity, max capacity

#### Elastic Load Balancing

Short name is ELB. Is a service that AWS enables. Can work together with auto-scaling group

#### Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS)

**Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS)** is a publish/subscribe service. Using Amazon SNS topics, a publisher publishes messages to subscribers. This is similar to the coffee shop; the cashier provides coffee orders to the barista who makes the drinks.

#### **Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS)****

Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS) is a message queuing service. Using Amazon SQS, you can send, store, and receive messages between software components, without losing messages or requiring other services to be available.

#### Serverless computing

It's like application container. You do not have to manage or care about the servers that your application run on

##### AWS Lambda

[**AWS Lambda**(opens in a new tab)](https://aws.amazon.com/lambda) is a service that lets you run code without needing to provision or manage servers. 

While using AWS Lambda, you pay only for the compute time that you consume. Charges apply only when your code is running. You can also run code for virtually any type of application or backend service, all with zero administration. 

1. You upload your code to Lambda. 
2. You set your code to trigger from an event source, such as AWS services, mobile applications, or HTTP endpoints.
3. Lambda runs your code only when triggered.
4. You pay only for the compute time that you use. In the previous example of resizing images, you would pay only for the compute time that you use when uploading new images. Uploading the images triggers Lambda to run code for the image resizing function.

##### AWS Fargate

[**AWS Fargate**(opens in a new tab)](https://aws.amazon.com/fargate/) is a serverless compute engine for containers. It works with both Amazon ECS and Amazon EKS. 

When using AWS Fargate, you do not need to provision or manage servers. AWS Fargate manages your server infrastructure for you. You can focus more on innovating and developing your applications, and you pay only for the resources that are required to run your containers.

#### Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS)

[**Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS)**(opens in a new tab)](https://aws.amazon.com/ecs/) is a highly scalable, high-performance container management system that enables you to run and scale containerized applications on AWS. This supports docker

#### Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS)

[**Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS)**(opens in a new tab)](https://aws.amazon.com/eks/) is a fully managed service that you can use to run Kubernetes on AWS. 

[Kubernetes(opens in a new tab)](https://kubernetes.io/) is open-source software that enables you to deploy and manage containerized applications at scale.

### Module 3 Global Infrastructure and Reliability

#### Availability Zone

An **Availability Zone** is a single data center or a group of data centers within a Region. Availability Zones are located tens of miles apart from each other. This is close enough to have low latency (the time between when content requested and received) between Availability Zones. However, if a disaster occurs in one part of the Region, they are distant enough to reduce the chance that multiple Availability Zones are affected.

One region would contain one or more availability zones

Regional services are by definition already highly available at no additional cost of effort on your part. 

#### Edge locations

An **edge location** is a site that Amazon CloudFront (amazon's CDN) uses to store cached copies of your content closer to your customers for faster delivery.
